---
category: newsroom
date: '2019-05-14'
excerpt: >-
 The Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board has announced that it
will hold a public forum on May 31, 2019, in Washington, DC.The subject of the forum is to examine the USA FREEDOM Act and the government’s call detail records (CDR) program under that law. The forum will be open to the public and members of the media.
layout: post
links:
  - text: View File
    url: /library/Public Forum Advisory 05_14_19 final.pdf
permalink: /newsroom/20190514.html
title: >-
  Board Announces May 31 Public Forum
---
FOR RELEASE  
May 14, 2019

**PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT BOARD WILL HOLD PUBLIC FORUM ON MAY 31, 2019**
*Event to examine the USA FREEDOM Act and the government’s call detail records (CDR) program under that law.*

**WASHINGTON, DC**—The Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board has announced that it
will hold a public forum on May 31, 2019, in Washington, DC. The subject of the forum is to examine the USA FREEDOM Act 
and the government’s call detail records (CDR) program under that law. 
The forum will be open to the public and members of the media.

The upcoming public forum will provide an opportunity for the Board to hear a range of 
expert views on the USA Freedom Act—from its history and implementation, to present 
challenges and the path ahead. The USA FREEDOM Act modified the program previously 
operated under Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act, which was analyzed in a 2014 report 
by the Board. The upcoming public forum is part of the Board’s continuing oversight of this program. 


Details of the public forum are as follows:
Date: Friday, May 31, 2019
Time: 10:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
Location: Ronald Reagan Building, Hemisphere Room
1300 Pennsylvania Ave. NW
Washington, DC 20004

Scheduled expert panelists include:

•	Jamil N. Jaffer, Founder and Director of the National Security Institute and 
Director of the National Security Law & Policy Program at the Antonin Scalia Law School and George Mason University;

• Susan Landau, Bridge Professor of Cyber Security and Policy in the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and the School of Engineering, Department of Computer Science, Tufts University;

• Jonathan Mayer, Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Public Affairs, Princeton University;

• Julian Sanchez, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute;

• Caroline Lynch, Founder and Owner of Copper Hill Strategies, former Chief Counsel of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations;

• Michael Bahar, Partner, Eversheds Sutherland’s Global Cybersecurity and Privacy Practice, Former Minority Staff Director and General Counsel for the US House Intelligence Committee.

####

The PCLOB is an independent agency within the Executive Branch established by the
Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007. The PCLOB’s mission is
to ensure that the federal government’s efforts to prevent terrorism are balanced with the need to
protect privacy and civil liberties. Current Board Members include Chairman Adam I. Klein and
Board Members Jane E. Nitze and Edward W. Felten. 
